## Core API

### Overview

The module contains the Engine base classes and the abstract platform interfaces that can be utilized by the platform and/or other modules. It also provides an easy way to integrate Alexa Auto SDK into an application or a framework. This involves configuring and creating an instance of `Engine`, overriding default platform implementation classes, and registering the custom interface handlers with the instantiated Engine.

### Creating the Engine

You create an instance of the Engine by calling the static function `Engine.create()`.

    m_engine = Engine.create();

### Configuring the Engine

Before the Engine can be started, you must configure it using the required `aace.core.config.EngineConfiguration` object(s) for the services you will be using. The SDK provides classes for reading the configuration data from a JSON file, as well as programmatically configuring the services.

> **Note**: For Android certpath, and data path runtime resolution, we recommend configuring the engine programmatically as demonstrated in the sample code below.  

```
m_engine.configure( new EngineConfiguration[]{
    AlexaConfiguration.createCurlConfig( "<CERTS_PATH>" ),
    AlexaConfiguration.createDeviceInfoConfig(  "<DEVICE_SERIAL_NUMBER>", "<CLIENT_ID>", "<PRODUCT_ID>" ),
    AlexaConfiguration.createMiscStorageConfig( "<SQLITE_DATABASE_FILE_PATH>" ),
    AlexaConfiguration.createCertifiedSenderConfig( "<SQLITE_DATABASE_FILE_PATH>" ),
    AlexaConfiguration.createAlertsConfig( "<SQLITE_DATABASE_FILE_PATH>" ),
    AlexaConfiguration.createSettingsConfig( "<SQLITE_DATABASE_FILE_PATH>" ),
    AlexaConfiguration.createNotificationsConfig( "<SQLITE_DATABASE_FILE_PATH>" ),
    LoggerConfiguration.createSyslogSinkConfig( "syslog", "<LOGGER_LEVEL>" )
});
```

Read about the `AlexaConfiguration Class` for more information about configurable methods.

* [Alexa Auto SDK for Android](https://alexa.github.io/aac-sdk/docs/android/)
* [Alexa Auto SDK for C++](https://alexa.github.io/aac-sdk/docs/cpp/)

**NOTE:** The Engine's `configure()` method can only be called once and must be called before registering any platform interfaces or starting the Engine.

#### Vehicle Information Requirements

Vehicle configuration information should be supplied to the SDK through regular Engine configuration. A sample configuration is detailed below. The `EngineConfiguration` object including this information may be generated by using this schema in a `.json` config file or programmatically through the `VehicleConfiguration.createVehicleInfoConfig()` factory method.

The following JSON example lists all of the information that can be used to enhance the Alexa experience in the car.

```
{
  "aace.vehicle":
  {
     "info": {
         "make": "<MAKE>",
         "model": "<MODEL>",
         "year": "<YEAR>",
         "trim": "<TRIM>",
         "geography": "<GEOGRAPHY>",
         "version": "<SOFTWARE_VERSION>",
         "os": "<OPERATING_SYSTEM>",
         "arch": "<HARDWARE_ARCH>",
         "language": "<LANGUAGE>",
         "microphone": "<MICROPHONE>"
         "countries": "<COUNTRY_LIST>",
         "vehicleIdentifier": "<VEHICLE_IDENTIFIER>"
     }
  }
}
```
The vehicle information should be provided with a unique vehicle identifier that is not the vehicle identification number (VIN). This information is required to pass the certification process. Read detailed information about the vehicle configuration class in the API reference documentation: [Alexa Auto SDK for Android](../../docs/android/)

### Registering Platform Interface Handlers

A platform implementation should extend each interface it will use by creating an interface handler for it. Each handler will then be registered with the Engine by passing an instance to `registerPlatformInterface()`.

The functions that are overridden in the interface handlers are typically associated with directives from AVS. The functions that are made available by the interfaces, are typically associated with events or context sent to AVS. It is not always a one to one mapping however, because the Alexa Auto SDK attempts to simplify the platform's interaction with AVS.

An example of creating and registering platform interface handlers with the Engine is shown below.

```
	// LoggerHandler.java
	public class LoggerHandler extends Logger {
	...
	// AlexaClientHandler.java
	public class AlexaClientHandler extends AlexaClient {
	...
	// MainActivity.java
	m_engine.registerPlatformInterface( m_logger = new LoggerHandler( getApplicationContext(), Logger.Level.INFO ) );
	m_engine.registerPlatformInterface( m_alexaClient = new AlexaClientHandler( getApplicationContext(), m_logger ) );
	...
```

#### Starting the Engine

Finally, the Engine can be started after calling configure and registering all required platform interfaces. The Engine will attempt to register all listed interface handlers, and then attempt to establish a connection with the given authorization implementation.

```
    m_engine.start();
```

#### Stopping the Engine

If you need to stop the engine for any reason, use the Engine's `stop()` method. You can then restart the Engine by calling `start()` again.

```
    if( m_engine != null ) {
        m_engine.stop();
    }
```

You should call `dispose()` on the Engine when the app is being destroyed.

```
	if( m_engine != null ) {
        m_engine.dispose();
	}
```

### Implementing log events

The Engine provides a callback for implementing log events from the AVS SDK. This is optional, but useful for the platform implementation.

To implement a custom log event handler for logging events from AVS using the default engine Logger class, the `Logger` class should be extended:

```
public class LoggerHandler extends Logger
{
	@Override
	public boolean logEvent( Level level, long time, String source, String message )
	{
		//handle the log events from Alexa Auto SDK, AVS, or other source
	...
		//notify the Engine of a new log event
		log((Level) level, (String) tag, (String) message );

```    

### Source Tags
There are generally three different log `tag` values, depending on the `source`.

- `AVS` refers to logs being passed from the AVS Device SDK.
- `AAC` refers to logs being passed from the Alexa Auto SDK.
- `CLI` refers to logs coming from the client itself, by convention.

## Core Engine Properties

The Core module defines several constants that are used to get and set runtime properties in the Engine. To use these properties call the Engine's <code>getProperty()</code> and <code>setProperty()</code> methods.

```
// get the SDK version from the Engine
String version = m_engine.getProperty( com.amazon.aace.core.CoreProperties.VERSION );
```

The following constants are defined in the Core module:

<table>
<tr>
<th>Property</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>com.amazon.aace.core.CoreProperties.VERSION</code>
</td>
<td>The Alexa Auto SDK version.

>**Note**: This is a read-only property.</td>

</tr>
</table>


See the API reference documentation for [CoreProperties](./aace/src/main/java/com/amazon/aace/alexa/AlexaProperties.java) for more information.
