# Getting Started with the Alexa Auto SDK
This document assumes that you have read the [README](./README.md) to understand the basic Auto SDK concepts. Complete the steps in this document to get started with  the Auto SDK and to follow security best practices.

<!-- omit in toc -->
## Table of Contents
- [Before You Start](#before-you-start)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Downloading Optional Extensions](#downloading-optional-extensions)

## Before You Start
Complete the following steps before you get started with the Auto SDK:

1. Register for an [Amazon Developer Account](https://developer.amazon.com/home.html) and [create an Alexa device and security profile](./NEED_HELP.md#registering-a-product-and-creating-a-security-profile) to use the Auto SDK.
2. Make sure that you meet the requirements for building the Auto SDK and understand the dependencies, as described in the SDK builder [README](./builder/README.md).  

## Getting Started
Follow these steps to get started with the Auto SDK:

1. Clone the `alexa-auto-sdk` repository into your project.
2. If you want to use the optional Auto SDK modules, download the modules from the locations listed in [Downloading Optional Extensions](#downloading-optional-extensions).
   
3. Build the Auto SDK as described in the builder [README](./builder/README.md).
   >**Note:** If your target platform is Android and you want to implement any optional modules (such as wake word support and Alexa Communications), you must use the Android Archive (AAR) files generated by the Auto SDK Builder. Do not use the prebuilt platform .AARs and sample-core AAR available in JCenter; they are for the default Auto SDK modules only.
   
4. Install the built package on your device as described in the builder [README](./builder/README.md).
   
5. Create and configure an instance of the Engine. For details, see the [C++](./modules/core/README.md#creating-the-engine) or [Android](./platforms/android/modules/core/README.md#creating-the-engine) Core module documentation.
    
6. Extend the Auto SDK interfaces by creating a custom handler for each interface that you want to implement and registering the handler with the Engine.

7. Start the Engine using the `start()` command.
   
8. Use the Sample App ([C++](./samples/cpp/README.md) or [Android](./samples/android/README.md)) to see how the Auto SDK works and to test end-to-end functionality. 

## Downloading Optional Extensions
    
**NOTE**: The version of the optional extension archive must match the version of the Auto SDK that you are using. For example, if you are using Auto SDK 3.0 and want to install the Local Voice Control extension, you must download version 3.0 of the Local Voice Control extension archive.

Click the link in the following list to go to the directory where the extension archive is located: 

* [AmazonLite Wake Word extension](https://developer.amazon.com/alexa/console/avs/preview/resources/details/Auto%20SDK%20Amazonlite%20Extension)

* [Alexa Communications extension](https://developer.amazon.com/alexa/console/avs/preview/resources/details/Auto%20SDK%20Alexa%20Comms%20Extension)

* [Local Voice Control extension](https://developer.amazon.com/alexa/console/avs/preview/resources/details/Auto%20SDK%20Local%20Voice%20Control%20Extension)

* [Device Client Metrics (DCM) extension](https://developer.amazon.com/alexa/console/avs/preview/resources/details/Auto%20SDK%20Metric%20Upload%20Service%20Extension)

* [Voice Chrome for Android extension](https://developer.amazon.com/alexa/console/avs/preview/resources/details/Auto%20SDK%20Voice%20Chrome%20Extension)

